---
layout: post
title: "A Review of Key Ring for iPhone"
date: 2012-01-11 20:58
comments: true
categories: rant review
published: false
---

Recently I found myself needing to thin out my wallet again and removed several loyalty cards from my pocket. While now having a thinner wallet, I didn't have my Jewel card every time I went to get food. I decided to try out an app called "Key Ring":http://keyringapp.com/ in which you scan the barcode on the card, then scan your phone when you need to checkout.

I wanted so badly to love it and cherish it and trust it with all of my data (mostly so I could just throw away/forget about the physical cards), but there are a some UI/UX issues that make it an awkward experience at best.
<!--more-->

h2. A review of the interface

I'll start off by saying this: the UI isn't ugly. For the most part, it's decent. It's as soon as you start interacting with the app that you notice all the strange and quirky behaviors it has.

h3. The welcome screen 

When you first open the app, you're greeted with a nice grid of items. Okay, cool. But then you start to read what they are (About, Account, Offers, Tips, Add Card, Join Programs). My entire purpose for using this app is to manage my damn cards. Why then, praytell, is that option *fifth* in the list (considering we read left to right, top to bottom)?

Hierarchically speaking, why is About _more important_ than Add Card? In fact, it would seem that at least 75% of the items above what would be the main focus are nothing more than noise. Why do I need Tips to learn how to add a card? Why doesn't the interface just make it obvious? I just want to add a damn card and I'm going to be doing that about 100% more than any other item in that grid menu.

h3. Adding a card

Pretty straightforward, although the camera screen could use some rethinking. My main purpose for adding a card is to take a picture. The largest, brightest action button is a Cancel button. No, I want to take a picture. You don't realize that it takes the picture for you until you've got the barcode all focused up. That's actually a really nice feature (thanks). But having 2 minor and 1 major action button when no actions are required is strange. This could use some love.

h3. Using your card

Now you're starting to build a little list of cards. You've got a logo and readable text which a lovely amount of whitespace which all adds up to be a nice easy hit target. Now, the next screen has got to be the strangest of all. I suspect the only time I'm going to actually tap the card I want to use is _when I want to use it_. But instead of having the barcode ready to scan...I see the barcode values? What? In what universe is that useful? 

Share card? "Hold on a sec cashier, I just realized I need to share this card with my buddy before I can let you scan it." How is this useful in a real scenario?

Then there's a More button which show's another plethera of buttons which seam ambiguous in themselves. Why does the label say Make a list, but the action say Notes? This doesn't make sense. 

Under that there's a button which I've never seen say anything but "No offers available". Tapping it just makes it disappear. If there aren't any offers, why is it actionable? Why am I even seeing it at all?

Fortunately, the main thing I need on this screen is the biggest so I just tap the funky big button with all the misaligned whitespace. HEY BARCODE! I've been looking for you! Immediately the barcode loads in portrait orientation, then snaps to landscape. Yet another eye twitch that makes me want to pickup the physical old card and put it back in my pocket.

